1. Name and Imagery

  1.1) The name shall be the National Populist Party, hereinafter referred to as the Party or the NPP. 

  1.2) The official flag and logo of the Party is a horizontal bicolor with a white 5-pointed star at its center, orientated so as to point upward. The bottom half of the flag is red (number 70180 in the Standard Color Card of America); the top half of the flag is blue (number 70075); these color specifications are to ensure that the flags color scheme always matches those of the flag of the United States of America. The geometry of the flag is a 1:2 ratio. at the center of the star shall be the Sword and Hammer of the Black Front.

  1.3) The official color scheme of the party, for all design purposes, shall reflect those of the flag and logo

- 2. Organization and Membership

2.1) The organization of the National Populist Party shall be on the basis of the Federalist Principle in order to ensure the greatest amount of internal democracy without giving way to internal anarchy. 
  
  2.2) The Party will be organized at three levels: the Local, State, and National bodies with various powers authorities as laid out in the Constitution of the Party
  
  2.3) Concerning Local or Affiliate Chapters

    A. Local or Affiliate Chapters  
      i. Accept the Constitution and Rules and Procedures of the Party, and submit to the authority of the national Party and its organs, per the Constitution and Rules and Procedures, including but not limited to rules relating to membership and dues, official positions and programmes, behavior, and organization.

      B. A local chapter may be formed by 5 or more persons who agree to the conditions of membership per the rules established by the central national party and its organs by meeting any requirements set forth by the national party and petitioning or filing for recognition as an affiliate chapter or party as established in the rules and procedures set forth by the national party through its respective organs. 
  
    2.4) The Local Chapter will  have the authority to draft bylaws for its own operation and platforms and policies tailored to its jurisdiction as long as it doeS not violate the bylaws of the State or National Parties. They may also organize in any manner that they see fit as long as it does not violate any principle set out in the Constitution and by-laws of the National Party.
   
   2.5) Affiliate Party
   
    A) An Affiliate Party is defined as
           -a party that affiliates with the Party and has representitation in the State committee but is not in perfect union with party ideology

           - has petitioned for and been granted recognition as an affiliate by the state party, with approval from the National Party In accordance with the bylaws thereof

          -  accepts and agrees to adhere to Party bylaws and rulings

     B) an affiliate party shall not have official recognition or voting rights in the National Congress or in any National Party organ
    
  2.6)Concerning State Chapters
    
      A. The State Chapters are granted the Authority  to oversee the formation of local chapters   in their home State and to represent their will on the State level.

      B. A State chapter is formed when there are five or more local chapters in one given State a time and a commttee of local representives are elected by a democratic election by the members of each local chapter thus forming the State Congress. 

      C. The State Committee is to form a State Committee consiting of the following departments and their leaders which will determine Statewide policies for the Chapter
        I) Department of Health and Welfare 
        II) Department of Finance 
        III) Department of Economics 
        IV) Department of Cultural Affairs 

      D. The State Committee is made up of elected offcials of each State Chapter. Members and will serve a term of two years in which time they shall will have the power to submit and vote upon resolutions and bylaws, in accordance with the Constitution and Bylaws of the Party and the State Committee. The State Party may overturn a resolution or decision of its State Comittee by calling for and achieving a supermajority vote of 85% by the membership of the State Party.

     E - the state party shall have the authority to  sponsor the petition of an applying party for recognition from the national party as an affiliate
     

   2.7 Concerning the Central Commitee
   
    A. The National Body is tasked with the overseeing of each State chapter and the creation of policy an bylaws for the party as a whole. 

    B. With this in mind the Party leadership will be structured in a similar manner as the State Chapters with a Board of Departments and a Congress of State Leaders from each State Chapter. 

    C. The Congress is made up of elected offcials of each State Chapter and will serve a term of Four years in which time the official will have the power to write bylaws if they are found by those of the State Chapter that they reside to be unfit or corrupt they may be withdrawn upon popular vote. 

    D. The Board of Departments on the National level will be hereby called the Central Committee and will be structured as follows; 
      
      I)Department of Economics
      II)Department of Education
      III)Department of Finance 
      IV)Department of Health and Welfare 
      V) Department of Culture
      VI)Department of Administration
      
      
    E. The Central Committee wll be selected by application and will be nominated by the Chairman and confirmed with a 60% or greater majority vote Congressional approvial 
    
    E. The leader of the Party will be refered to as the Chairman who will hold a term of Three years and will be elected by majority vote of all party members through an instant-runoff vote. The Vice-Chairman will be the runner up in the general elections for the Party Chairman in order to maintain party unity. 

    F. The Chairman will be tasked with overseeing party meetings, bylaws, and approving or vetoing the party platform. In the event that the Congress achieves a perfect tie, the chairman shall cast the final vote. If found unfit or corrupt the Congress and Central Committee upon majority vote has the power to impeach the Chairman of the party through a hearing in whch time the Vice-Chairman will be the acting leader of the NPP. Impeachment shall require a 70% majority vote in congress to call for hearings and a 90% majority Vote of No Confidence to the Chairman out of office

    G. In the event that a Chairman or Vice Chairman is impeached, the Congress shall elect a pro tempore Vice Chairman to hold office until proper elections can be arranged.
    
2.8) Concerning Membership 
  
  A. Membership will be granted to all who meet the following requirements; 
    I) At least 18 years of age 
    II)A legal citizen of the United States 
    III) Agrees with at least the majority of the Party Platform and Program 
    IV) Swears to abide by and uphold the Constitution of the Party
    V) a Member may be expelled his or her affiliate the Party if
        - the Member's affiliate party calls, by a 70% supermajority for an trial of the member for violations of this party Constitution or for acting against the aprty
        - The aforementioned trial results in a 90% supermajority of the affiliate party calling for expulsion and forwarding the Appeal For Expulsion to the Congress
    
2.9) Concerning Membership Dues
  
  A) All Membership dues will be determined by the State Chapters through a general assembly of local parties. 
  
  
4. Internal Governance

4.1) The National Party will be ran by the Party Congress, Central Committee, and the Chairman and Vice-Chairman 

4.2) The Party Congress wil be made up a representive from each State Chapter and will be tasked with the duty to write party bylaws that all from the highest position to the lowest is bound to. 

4.3) The roles of the Central Committee is as follows;
  A)Department of Economics;
  The Department of Economics will be tasked with writing economic policies for the NPP and traininig those in the party in economic theory. The head of the DoEc is to have an indepth understanding of economic theory and historical applications of economic policies in the United States and Europe. 
  
   B)Department of Education;
   The Department of Education is to make party policies the national education system and teachers and professors. To join or lead this one must certified as a teacher or professor. 
   
   C)Department of Finance 
   The department of finance is in charge of collecting dues from the local chapters, establishing due payment agreements/schedules with the local chapters, auditing local chapters on their finances and expenditures, balancing the party budget, and establishing budegeting plans for both projects and routine operation of the national party. Is also responsible for assisting in budget advising for the local chapters, as well as approving/declining fund requests for the local chapters.
      
      D)Department of Health and Welfare 
      E) Department of Culture
    
   F) Department of Administration
   The Department of Administration is tasked with auditing local chapter compliance with the national party's standards for all operations, including due payment delinquency investigations, overseeing membership program compliance, resolving grievances between party members, and investigating internal corruption of the party itself.  
      


5. Principles

  5.1) Motherland: The nation must be protected from the influence of outisde forces; national independence, both economically and politically, must be achieved to further develop the nation and prevent catastrophe. We must preserve cultural and national identities in our nation by everting to a more traditional society, free of social degeneracy and the marketing of it.
  
  5.2) Socialism: Capitalism has made multiculturalism impossible due to the fact that it exploits all antagonisms (class and culture) in order to generate fear, then sell a solution. A nation cannot be united if it does not provide for its people. Capitalism has allowed our nation to be sold to outside forces and is weakening the nation in every respect.
  
  5.3) Revolution: The political system as we know it is corrupt through and through, and cannot be reformed through the traditional democratic process put forth by the government that currently presides. The people must work together through a grassroots methodology to gain independence from the state and corporations in both a monetary and resource based manner.
  
  5.4) National Solidarity: We view the only path to the economic and political revolution is through national solidarity that brngs all Americans together regardless of ethnicity, gender, or religion we are all tied to the history and culture of the land that we are born on. 

6. Finance

  6.1) Membership dues will be collected by the heads of the local chapters of the NPP. How much the dues will be is determined by the local chapters since different chapters deal with different issues and may have varied tactics unique to their area.
  
  6.2) Dues will be universal and non varied among the members of the local chapter. Everyone pays the same amount, including the heads of the chapters.
  
  6.3) The national party reserves the right to collect funds from local chapters in accordance with written agreements the national party will make with the respective chapter heads.
  
  6.4) Each calender year, budget plans, fund agreements, and due material will be reviewed, filed, and either renewed or modified to fit the coming years goals. New budget plans are due by the 5th of January. 

7. Amendments and Revisions to this Constitution

  7.1) This Constitution may be amended or modified granted that the amended is either
    A) approved by a 90% supermajority of the congress and ratified via a 90% supermajority by 90% of all State Committees)
    or
    B) voted upon and approved by 97% of all Party members in a referendum organized across all affiliated parties
  
    
 
      
  

