
1. The proper role of the State, regardless of the logistics and specifics of its form and organization is :
-to serve as a manifestation of the Will and Desire of the Nation and to serve and perpetuate the Interest thereof, and 
-to protect the fundamental human rights and dignitites of all people subject to its jurisdiction. 
Any State which fails to fulfill any of these duties loses its claim to legitmately represent or govern over those it fails to represent or to protect.

2. The State bears the responsibility for not only serving the interest of the Nation as a whole, but also of protecting the fundamental rights and liberties of the Individuals which constitute the Nation. To this end, the State must remain secular in nature and protect the liberties and rights of all Citizens of the Nation and must treat all Citizens of the Nation as equal before the Law.

3. The Capitalist Mode of Production has proven unparalleled in its ability to produce prosperity and provide for the material needs of the Nation. Unfettered Capitalism, however, has proven itself to be a ravenous beast which crushes the working class beneath its feet and consumes all before it. Since the time of the Frankfurt Declaration, it has become clear that only Social Democracy can provide the balance necessary to ensure the well-being and dignity of the Nation and the People 

4. The labor movement and unions have played a crucial role in bringing about progressive change and the improvement of both working and social conditions. As union membership has fallen, so have real wages. The right to unionize, and the principles behind unionization must be supported and defend.

5. Trans- and internationalist movements which seek to abolish borders and undermine the sovereignty of the Nation-state violate the right to self-determination of the Nation. Therefore, nationalism broadly must be supported as a matter of principle

6. Anthropogenic Climate Change and pollution constitute very real threats to the Individual, the Nation, and the world. Both domestic policy and international agreements must be approached with this reality in mind in order to ensure the habitability of the world left to future generations

7. The First Past the Post voting system in the United States has led to an unrepresentative system in which gerrymandering and lack of choice have robbed Americans of meaningful elections. The only solution to this replacement is the abolition of traditional voting districts and the holding of multi-seat county-wide elections using the Single Transferable Vote, along with the related Ranked Choice Vote for single-seat offices include the President of these united States.

8. The State has a central role to play in serving to ensure the health and safety of the Nation. This includes not only regulations to ensure food and drug safety, but facilitating the use of liberal eugenic sciences to facilitate the efforts of the Nation to eliminate genetic disease and ensure the well-being and fitness of their own children.

9. America’s history of foreign intervention and nation-building has not only failed to solve the problems of faraway nations, but has frequently made those problems worse abroad while costing American lives and resources and earning us countless enemies around the globe. America’s policy going forward must be that we will only intervene to defend an enemy who is attacked and invaded. The internal squabbles of foreign nations are not our concern and continuing to serve as the world’s constable is directly at odds with or National interest.

10. A Nation that does not speak the same tongue and share a common culture is an artificial and inherently unstable construct. The fate of Yugoslavia must not be the fate of these United States. We must make English our official tongue and make citizenship and long-term residence contingent upon demonstrating an ILR level 2 or greater master of the English language. All official government documents and communications must be only in English.
